---
title: Installing the WebUI
description: >
   These instructions explain how to install and configure the Nephio WebUI.
weight: 2
---

To install the WebUI, we simply install a different *kpt* package. First, we pull the package locally:

```bash
kpt pkg get --for-deployment https://github.com/nephio-project/nephio-packages.git/nephio-webui@origin/v3.0.0
```

Before we apply it to the cluster, however, we should configure it.

By default, it expects the WebUI to be reached via *http://localhost:7007*. If you plan to expose the WebUI via a load
balancer service instead, then you need to configure the scheme, hostname, port, and service. Note that if you wish to
use HTTPS, you should set the *scheme* to *https*, but you will need to terminate the TLS at the load balancer as the
container currently only supports HTTP.

This information is captured in the application ConfigMap for the WebUI, which is generated by a KRM function. We can
change the values in the *nephio-webui/gen-configmap.yaml* just using a text editor (change the *hostname* and *port* values
under *params:*), and those will take effect later when we run `kpt fn render`. As an alternative to a text editor, you
can run these commands:

```bash
kpt fn eval nephio-webui --image gcr.io/kpt-fn/search-replace:v0.2.0 --match-kind GenConfigMap -- 'by-path=params.scheme' 'put-value=SCHEME'
kpt fn eval nephio-webui --image gcr.io/kpt-fn/search-replace:v0.2.0 --match-kind GenConfigMap -- 'by-path=params.hostname' 'put-value=HOSTNAME'
kpt fn eval nephio-webui --image gcr.io/kpt-fn/search-replace:v0.2.0 --match-kind GenConfigMap -- 'by-path=params.port' 'put-value=PORT'
```

If you want to expose the UI via a load balancer service, you can manually change the Service *type* to *LoadBalancer*,
or run:

```bash
kpt fn eval nephio-webui --image gcr.io/kpt-fn/search-replace:v0.2.0 --match-kind Service -- 'by-path=spec.type' 'put-value=LoadBalancer'
```

In the default configuration, the Nephio WebUI **is wide open with no authentication**. The WebUI itself authenticates to
the cluster using a static service account, which is bound to the cluster admin role. Any user accessing the WebUI is
**acting as a cluster admin**.

This configuration is designed for **testing and development only**. You must not use this configuration in any other
situation, and even for testing and development it must not be exposed on the internet (for example, via a LoadBalancer
service).

Configuring authentication for the WebUI is specific to the particular cluster environment. Guides for different
environments are below:

- [Google OAuth or OIDC](/content/en/docs/guides/install-guides/web-ui/webui-auth-gcp.md)
- [OIDC with Okta](/content/en/docs/guides/install-guides/web-ui/webui-auth-okta.md)

Once that configuration is updated, you can proceed with the installation (note, this uses `inventory-policy=adopt`,
since in the previous steps we may have created the namespace already).

```bash
kpt fn render nephio-webui
kpt live init nephio-webui
kpt live apply nephio-webui --reconcile-timeout=15m --output=table --inventory-policy=adopt
```
