content/en/docs/guides/install-guides/common-dependencies.md, before:

---
title: Installing common dependencies
description: >
  This guide describes how to install some required dependencies that are the same across all environments.

weight: 1
---

Some of these, like the resource-backend, will move out of the "required"
category in later releases.  Even if you do not use these directly in your
installation, the CRDs that come along with them are necessary.

### Network Config Operator

This component is a controller for applying configuration to routers and
switches.

```bash
kpt pkg get --for-deployment https://github.com/nephio-project/nephio-example-packages.git/network-config@v1.0.1
kpt fn render network-config
kpt live init network-config
kpt live apply network-config --reconcile-timeout=15m --output=table
```

### Resource Backend

The resource backend provides IP and VLAN allocation.

```bash
kpt pkg get --for-deployment https://github.com/nephio-project/nephio-example-packages.git/resource-backend@v1.0.1
kpt fn render resource-backend
kpt live init resource-backend
kpt live apply resource-backend --reconcile-timeout=15m --output=table
```

Commit message:

Common dependencies (#88)
Update URLs for KPT packages to point at catalog packages and replaced
the tag with `@main`, added a note to instruct people to replace the
`@main`tag with whatever tag they want to pull

---------

Co-authored-by: Victor Morales <chipahuac@hotmail.com>

content/en/docs/guides/install-guides/common-dependencies.md, after:

---
title: Installing common dependencies
description: >
  This guide describes how to install some required dependencies that are the same across all environments.

weight: 1
---

Some of these, like the resource-backend, will move out of the "required"
category in later releases.  Even if you do not use these directly in your
installation, the CRDs that come along with them are necessary.

> **_NOTE:_** If you want to use a version other than that at the tip of Nephio `catalog` repo, then replace the `@main` suffix on the package URLs on the `kpt pkg get` commands below with the tag of the version you wish to use.

### Network Config Operator

This component is a controller for applying configuration to routers and
switches.

```bash
kpt pkg get --for-deployment https://github.com/nephio-project/catalog.git/nephio/optional/network-config@main
kpt fn render network-config
kpt live init network-config
kpt live apply network-config --reconcile-timeout=15m --output=table
```

### Resource Backend

The resource backend provides IP and VLAN allocation.

```bash
kpt pkg get --for-deployment https://github.com/nephio-project/catalog.git/nephio/optional/resource-backend@main
kpt fn render resource-backend
kpt live init resource-backend
kpt live apply resource-backend --reconcile-timeout=15m --output=table
```
